---
title: GSoC Week 3
layout: post
tags: gsoc2013
---

This week I started reading about the [Infusion Renderer][0]. The [Infusion Table of Contents][1] was the best example I found to learn about the renderer. I still have my WebRTC Component as [view Component][2]. I'll probably have separate branch to try out renderer component. The renderer component is certainly going to reduce the markup for having video conferencing on any page. So its certainly high on my priorities.

My component is basically going to have 3 parts

1. A **simple form** for joining room, basically an input field. On submission a room will be created or joined. The form will only be displayed if the room option isn't configured while configuring the component
2. A container having **video tiles**, of all the clients who have joined the video conference.
3. A **Video Panel**, where enlarged video shall be played when a video tile is clicked.

Apart from this each video tile, will have an option to mute the audio and make it full screen. Since each video tile is created dynamically. The normal jQuery selectors don't work, since its dynamic content. I tried using jQuery [`.on()`][3] event handler, but still had no luck.

The markup for creating video tile is still in JavaScript, which is not a good practice. Hopefully this is fixed, if and when I switch to Infusion Renderer. I added the necessary files for writing Unit Tests to the project and went through Unit Tests of existing components to get an overview of kind of tests that were needed.


[0]: http://wiki.fluidproject.org/display/docs/Renderer
[1]: https://github.com/fluid-project/infusion/tree/master/src/webapp/components/tableOfContents
[2]: http://wiki.fluidproject.org/display/docs/View+Components
[3]: http://api.jquery.com/on/
