---
title: GSoC 2014 - Week 1
layout: post
tags: gsoc2014
---

TL;DR – I got kuma running on Day 1. And managed to iterate over a couple of bugs. Both of them are in production right now :sunglasses:

Last week I officially started working as Google Summer of Code student for Mozilla Developer Network. Hadn't really been active for a month or so, owing to exams and college workload.

So, the first thing I did was setup kuma again. `vagrant` has never been my friend and it continued to trouble. So I ended up redoing everything from scratch. I just retained the existing git repository.

So for anyone reading this, let me just repeat the whole process of kuma in brief. More detailed installation and troubleshooting steps can be [seen here][0]

{% highlight bash %}

# Fork the [kuma repo], and clone it locally
git clone git@github.com:<your_username>/kuma.git
cd kuma
git submodule update --init --recursive

# Assuming you have vagrant and virtualbox installed.
# This wll download the kuma-box ~ 600MB. So grab yourself coffee! And run some script after that to update everything
vagrant up

# Once everything is done, you need to ssh into your VM
vagrant ssh

# You are now, inside the VM. And you'll see all the commands that you might need to run. But foreman would do the necessary stuff for you.
foreman start
{% endhighlight %}


Don't be surprised, if you get some errors first time you do this. Infact, I have never managed to get everything running the first time I do this.

So if you get failures, after running `vagrant up`. . Try running 
`vagrant provison` outside the VM or run the dev environment update script inside the VM  

```
sudo puppet apply /home/vagrant/src/puppet/manifests/dev-vagrant.pp
```

You might need to run these commands multiple times, to setup if you don't succeed once. Sounds scary, but its one time thing, before you have the awesome running!

If things still don't work perfectly, your best bet is destroy the VM 
`vagrant destroy` and start everything again.

If you already had kuma running, and are still getting stuck on the provisioning script. Chances are the vagrant `kuma-ubuntu` box got updated. And you might need to delete the box and redownload the latest version of it again.

``` 
vagrant box remove kuma-ubuntu
```

I had a similar situation, and ended up redoing everything again

- Re-downloading the box
- setting up kuma 
- and then running provision script

After few failures with `vagrant provision` I tried running the dev environment update script from inside the VM and it fixed __EVERYTHING__!

I worked on [bug 467346][2] and [bug 989089][3] this week.

It's been quite exciting to tackle UI/UX problems with David. Quite, lucky to have him as my mentor. I'm hoping I can solve more challenging problems in coming weeks and make MDN better.





[0]: https://kuma.readthedocs.org/en/latest/installation-vagrant.html
[1]: http://github.com/mozilla/kuma
[2]: https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=467346
[3]: https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=989089